INTRODUCTION TO WEB

What is web?
   web is a information system which has documents and webpages can be accessed by using url throutgh the internet..

what is internet?
   internet is a global network of networks which uses the internet protocols.

what is network?

network is a  connection of two or more computers for data sharing.

what is url?

 url is a uniform resource locator which is used to find specific page on the web.

what is web browser?

the software that is used for browsing and for displaying web pages which is available over the internet.

what is web server?

the software that searches finds and provide documents to the browser as requested by them.

how web works?

1) when we search any website in browser for the first time itgoes to the DNS SERVER where it can find the ip address of the website.

2) Along with that ip adress the browser sends an HTTP request to the server.

3) After the http request sent from the browser the TCP CONNECTION (three way handshake process) should be established before the data sharing.

4)once the TCP connection established the server sents the data to the client(browser).

5) the browser consist of  DOM PARSER and CSSOM PARSER which parses the data into the DOM TREE and CSSOM TREE.

6) Finally the data is displayed into the browser window.

what is html parser?

html parser parses the html code (recieved form the server) into DOM tree.

what is cssom parser?

cssom parser parses the css code(recieved from the server) into CSSOM tree 

what is js engine?

it is an interpreter which executes the javascript code.

what is internet ?

allows you to send and recieve data on web

what is TCP/IP?

it is a protocol that defines how data should be transferred over the internet.

what is DNS?

address book for website

what is http?

it is a protocol that dedines a languages for client and server to each other.

BROWSER WAR;

WWW was invented by tim berners lee in 1989

mosaic is the first web browser invneted by marc andressen in 1993

netscape is invented by jim clark in 1994

internet explorer is invented by micrsoft in 1995

chrome is invented by google in 2008

javascript is invented by brenden eich in 1995

initially js is called as mocha,live wire,livescript and then finally js.

ECMA - european computer manufacturing association which is globally accepted standard.

what is DOM TREE?

DOM tree is a platform which allows programs to access and update the html elements

what is CSSOM TREE?

CSSOM TREE  is a platform which allows the program to access and update the css elements.

what is IP ADDRESS?

unique address that identifies device over the internet

whatis MAC address?

it is a unique physical address that is used to identify the physical device.

what is PORT address?

it is a communication start and end point.it is like a technical gate where the communication happens. each port is assigned to specific process or service.

how the server looks at the url?

url consist of http request protocol followed by domain name,port number,file path and then some keywords to identify or filter the contents.

what is REQUEST AND RESPONSSE CYCLE?

communication between server and client is done by http request.

HTTP REQUEST;

http requests defines the action to be performed for a given data.

9 methods are

GET -retieve the data 
HEAD
POST- for creating the data
PUT- update the data 
DELETE- used to delete the data
CONNECT
OPTIONS
TRACE
PATCH

HTTP responses;

http response code indicates the specific http request is successful or not

100-199 = processing
200-299 = success
300-399 = redirecting to another page
400-499 = client error
500-599 = servor error.

what is debugger in browser?

  it is a develepor tool which is used to finding and fixing the errors within the script.

what is inspect in browser?

  it is a developer tool which is used to  view and edit the html and css code behind the web content.

what is responsive view?

 it is a developer tool which helps the developer to make responsive web design for different screen size devices.

what is browser js?

  it is a scripting programming language which is used to make web pages functional and dynamic.

what is node js?

NODE JS  is a javascript runtime environment which runs on v8 engine and executes the js code without the help of the browser.

what are the data types in js?

 primitive data types.

   number
   string
   boolean

 non primitive data types

  objects
  array

what is copy by value?

when you copy number or string like b=a both variables will point to the different address this behaviour is  called as copy by vlaue.

what is copy by refernce?

when you copy array or objects like b=a both will point to the same address this behaviour is called as copy by reference.

what is window object?

window object represents the browser window

all global variables,objects and functions are the member of the window object.

what is document object?

document object represents the webpage

if you want to access any html elements in html page you always start with accessing the document object.





 
